# Global ocean Eddy Kinetic Energy from three decades of satellite altimetry observations

This repository contains the codes used to conduct the study of Barceló-Llull, B., Roselló, P., Combes, V., Sánchez-Román, A., Pujol, M. I.  &amp; Pascual, A. entitled "Robust intensification of global ocean eddy kinetic energy from three decades of satellite altimetry observations." The manuscript is under review and the preprint is available at [available soon].

The dataset to accompany "Robust intensification of global ocean eddy kinetic energy from three decades of satellite altimetry observations." is available at [available soon].

This repository is built from the repository of Pere Rosselló available at: https://github.com/pererossello/EKE_all_two_sat

## Repository Structure
This repository is organized as follows:

- `code/`: Contains the Python code used for data retrieval, pre-processing, and figure generation.
    - `download_data/`: Jupyter notebooks for downloading the raw data.
    - `preprocessing/`: Jupyter notebooks for each step of the data preprocessing.
    - `generate_figures/`: Jupyter notebooks for generating each figure in the manuscript.  
    - `utils.py`: Utility functions used throughout the project.
    - `data_retrieve_utils.py`: Functions used for data retrieval.
    - `preprocessing_utils.py`: Preprocessing functions.
    - `plot_utils.py`: Functions used for plotting the results.
    
    
- `results/`: Contains the results of the computations done in the `preprocessing/` directory, including netCDF files with EKE time series.
- `figures/`: Contains the figures generated by the code.
- `tables/`: Contains the table generated by the code.

## Getting Started
Instructions for downloading the data and executing the computations can be found in the Jupyter notebooks in the `download_data/` and `preprocessing/` directories, respectively. 

However, if you only wish to evaluate the EKE time series and/or generate figures, you can directly run the Jupyter notebooks in the `generate_figures/` directory with the preprocessed data provided in `results/`.

## Data
The data used in this study comes from the global multi-satellite Delayed Time (DT) Data Unification and Altimeter Combination System (DUACS), made freely available through the European Copernicus Program.

We use two types of altimetric L4 gridded products: the all-satellites (all-sat) and the two-satellites (two-sat) products.

Please refer to the Data and Methods section for more information on the data used in this study, including how it was retrieved and processed.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details.
